Zoning is a process that gives local and national agencies the autonomy to regulate land use. Usually, zoning regulations are administered at the level of a local authority, municipality, or county (e.g., Australia and the United States) in some other jurisdictions, zoning is regulated at the state or national level (e.g., France and Germany). Zoning could also be regulated by strategies such as environmental impact assessments.[^1] Zones may also be designated as protected or conservation areas that are used to delimit and define units of land for conservation and recreational activities. According to the IUNC “a protected area is a clearly defined geographical space, recognized, dedicated and managed, through legal or other effective means, to achieve the long term conservation of nature with associated ecosystem services and cultural values” (IUCN Definition 2008). Protected areas are generally established to protect biodiversity and preserve the integrity of ecosystem processes. Protected area zoning PAZ is applied widely for the protection of both marine and terrestrial areas. Some jurisdictions may allow limited development within PAZs. For example, in Prince Edwards Island, in Atlantic Canada, a limited amount of development is allowed within a zone that is designated as an Environment Protection Zone. However, in most instances, Buffer Management Zones are established as a transition area between protected areas and private lands. Generally, the establishment of Protected area zoning serves as an effective strategy for avoiding development within environmentally sensitive areas. [^2]